# **Comparative Analysis of SMiTH Model on Favites Datasets**  

In this directory, we present a **comparative analysis** of the **SMiTH model** results on two simulated datasets: **Favites_log** and **Favites_exp**. The goal of this analysis is to evaluate the performance of **SMiTH** in reconstructing transmission networks compared to other models.

## **Simulated Datasets**
This section provides details about the simulated datasets used in our analysis. These datasets were generated using FAVITES (FrAmework for VIral Transmission and Evolution Simulation). All configuration files for these simulations are located in the CompiledCode/FAVITES_Configs directory, named as Favites_[simulated_data]_Config.txt, where [simulated_data] corresponds to the dataset name.

- [Favites_log](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/marykafi_uconn_edu/Documents/FavitesDataset/Favites_log.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=x8HFsd) - Intra-site evolution under the logistic coalescent model 

- [Favites_exp](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/marykafi_uconn_edu/Documents/FavitesDataset/Favites_exp.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=PVR1wv) - Intra-site evolution under the exponential coalescent model

- [**exp_randTransRate**](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:f:/r/personal/pavel_skums_uconn_edu/Documents/Matlab/transNetHomomorphism/Favites_new_revision/exp_randTransRate?csf=1&web=1&e=efK6K8) – Data generated with random migration rates  
- [**exp_samp1.zip**](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/pavel_skums_uconn_edu/Documents/Matlab/transNetHomomorphism/Favites_new_revision/exp_samp1.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=qlIfwO) – Data with one sequence per site  
- [**exp_samp10.zip**](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/pavel_skums_uconn_edu/Documents/Matlab/transNetHomomorphism/Favites_new_revision/exp_samp10.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=oInEkC) – Data with ten sequences per site  
- [**exp_samp50.zip**](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/personal/pavel_skums_uconn_edu/Documents/Matlab/transNetHomomorphism/Favites_new_revision/exp_samp50.zip?csf=1&web=1&e=VC1YJl) – Data with fifty sequences per site  

## **SMiTH scripts**
The folder **SMiTH** contains Matlab scripts used to run SMiTH on simulated data, perform benchmarking analysis and create plots for the paper. 

run_simulated_data.m: the main script that can be used to run SMiTH on all simulated datasets. Requires settings correct paths to input and output directories.

analyzePlotSimul.m: processing the algoritms' results and creating plots used in the paper

si_model_simul_rand_rates.m: implementation of a SI model with variable migration rates (used in benchmarking, the details can be found in the paper)

undersampTree.m: used to produce data under random site sampling.

Secondary data generated by these tools and used at different stages of analysis is avilable here: [Secondary data](https://uconn-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/pavel_skums_uconn_edu/Ef81Eb3BU65DsBf8C_ltJuUBuZ4gpNk1gtJ455hDMySJ8w?e=YQHWzT)

## **Comparison with other tools**
We benchamrked the **SMiTH tool** against the following transmission network inference tools:  
- **FitchCount (part of Cassiopeia)**  
- **Machina**  
- **Phyloscanner**  
- **STraTUS**  
- **TNet**  


## **Directory Structure & Contents**
Each **model-specific directory** contains:  
**`/model_name/`** — A subdirectory for each model comparison, including:  
- **`run_model.sh` / `run_model.py`** — Code or scripts used to run the model on the dataset.  
- **Evaluation scripts** — scripts for analyzing the model’s performance.  



## **How to Use This Repository**
### **Navigate to the Model Directory**
Each model has its own folder where you can find scripts and evaluation files. 

### **Run the Model**
Follow the provided scripts and instructions to **replicate the execution** of the model on the dataset.
